Rexster is started and stopped through a command line interface exposed via the @rexster.sh@.  When Rexster is started, it listens on a [[configurable port|Rexster Configuration]] (port 8183 by default) for shutdown and status requests.  

h1. Starting Rexster

When starting Rexster from the command line using:

```text
rexster.sh --start
```

or with:

```text
rexster.sh -s
```

there are several options available:

* @-rp@, @--rexsterport@ - Overrides the @rexster-server-port@ configuration value in @rexster.xml@.  This value is 8182 by default.
* @-wr@, @--webroot@ - Overrides the @web-root@ configuration value in @rexster.xml@.
* @-c@, @--configuration@ - Specify the location of a specific @rexster.xml@ file to use for configuration.  If this argument is not specified, Rexster will first try to read a file called @rexster.xml@ from the root of the working directory.  If it can't find that it will use the @com.tinkerpop.rexster.rexster.xml@ resource.
* @-d@, @--debug@ - When this flag is included on the command line, log messages from Jersey are no longer suppressed.  May be useful when developing Rexster itself or building [[Extensions]].
* @-h@, @--help@ - When this flag is supplied on the command line, Rexster outputs a description of the command line options available.  Rexster will not start when help is requested.

The following command will start Rexster on port 7788 with a configuration file called @my-rexster.xml@:

```text
rexster.sh --start -rp 7788 -c my-rexster.xml
```

h1. Stopping Rexster

When stopping Rexster from the command line using:

```text
rexster.sh --stop
```

or with the shorthand:

```text
rexster.sh -x
```

there are several options available: 

* @-rh@, @--rexsterhost@ - The host/IP address to which the shutdown command will be issued.  Shutdown will assume @127.0.0.1@ if the parameter is not specified.
* @-rp@, @--rexsterport@ - The port of the host to which the shutdown command will be issued.  Shutdown will assume @8183@ if the parameter is not specified.
* @-w@, @--wait@ - Wait for the server to confirm that shutdown was performed.
* @-h@, @--help@ - When this flag is supplied on the command line, a description of the command line options is displayed.  A command to stop Rexster will not be issued when help is requested.

The following command would issue a stop message to a Rexster server listening on @192.168.0.123@ and port @7788@.

```text
rexster.sh --stop -rh 192.168.0.123 -rp 7788
```

h1. Other Commands

Aside from starting and stopping Rexster, there are several other commands that can be executed against Rexster.

* @-u@, @--status@ - Gets the status of the Rexster server (running or not).  Use @-h@ with it for a list of command parameters.
* @-v@, @--version@ - Shows the version of Rexster.
* @-h@, @--help@ - When this flag is supplied on the command line, a description of the command options is displayed. 
