Rexster allows manipulation of property values on @Vertex@ and @Edge@ objects (i.e. @Element@ objects).  By default, these values are assumed to be string data types, but the Rexster API allows the the following data types to be set and allows for a calling client to get any results with their associated data types for proper deserialization.  

Rexster supports the following data types:

* String
* Integer
* Long
* Float 
* Double
* List
* Map

Serialization of graph elements to JSON is handled by the "Blueprints JSONWriter":https://github.com/tinkerpop/blueprints/wiki/JSON-Reader-and-Writer-Library.

h1. Getting Results with Data Types

Getting results with data types attached is accomplished by adding the @application/vnd.rexster-typed+json@ [[mime type|Rexster Mime Types]] to the @accept@ header on the request.

```text
curl -v -H "Accept:application/vnd.rexster.typed+json" http://localhost:8182/graphs/gratefulgraph/vertices/337
```

```javascript
{
    "version": "*.*",
    "results": {
        "_type": "vertex",
        "_id": {
            "type": "string",
            "value": "337"
        },
        "keystring": {
            "type": "string",
            "value": "123"
        },
        "keymap": {
            "type": "map",
            "value": {
                "propertyb": {
                    "type": "integer",
                    "value": 321
                },
                "propertya": {
                    "type": "integer",
                    "value": 123
                }
            }
        },
        "name": {
            "type": "string",
            "value": "CHINESE BONES"
        },
        "song_type": {
            "type": "string",
            "value": "cover"
        },
        "performances": {
            "type": "integer",
            "value": 1
        },
        "keylist": {
            "type": "list",
            "value": [
                {
                    "type": "integer",
                    "value": 100
                },
                {
                    "type": "integer",
                    "value": 200
                },
                {
                    "type": "string",
                    "value": "(i,300"
                }
            ]
        },
        "type": {
            "type": "string",
            "value": "song"
        },
        "keytyped": {
            "type": "integer",
            "value": 123
        }
    },
    "queryTime": 1.092324
}
```

h1. Set Properties With Data Types

By default, properties set on the URI are stored as strings.  Even values that could be coerced to a different data type will be stored as a string.  

```text
http://localhost:8182/graphs/gratefulgraph/vertices/337?keyinteger=123&keystring=xyz
```

Both properties, @keyinteger@ and @keystring@ will be stored as strings even though @keyinteger@ could be coerced to an integer value.  To get Rexster to store the value using a specific data type that data type must be specified as the value in the key-value pair using the following format: @(type,value)@.

```text
http://localhost:8182/graphs/gratefulgraph/vertices/337?keyinteger=(integer,123)&keystring=xyz
```

h2. Primitive Data Types

All values set without a data type will be defaulted to strings.  If a data type is set and it does not match one of the allowable types, Rexster will assume a string value.  If a data type is set and the value itself cannot be coerced to that type, Rexster will assume a string.

An integer may be specified using @integer@ or @i@ as the data type.

```text
http://localhost:8182/graphs/gratefulgraph/vertices/337?x=(integer,123)&y=(i,123)
```

A long may be specified using @long@ or @l@ as the data type.

```text
http://localhost:8182/graphs/gratefulgraph/vertices/337?x=(long,123)&y=(l,123)
```

A float may be specified using @float@ or @f@ as the data type.

```text
http://localhost:8182/graphs/gratefulgraph/vertices/337?x=(float,123)&y=(f,123)
```

A double may be specified using @double@ or @d@ as the data type.

```text
http://localhost:8182/graphs/gratefulgraph/vertices/337?x=(double,123)&y=(d,123)
```

h2. List Data Type

A list will store an array of objects.  The objects may be all of the same data type or a mixture of different data types.  Lists are defined on the URI using the @list@ keyword and is followed by a parentheses enclosed, comma separated list of values.  The values are defined in the same way that primitives are defined using the @(type,value)@.

```text
http://localhost:8182/graphs/gratefulgraph/vertices/337?keylist=(list,((i,100),(i,200),(i,300)))
```

```text
http://localhost:8182/graphs/gratefulgraph/vertices/337?keylist=(list,((i,100),200,(d,300.5)))
```

h2. Map Data Type

A map allows the storing of a key-value pair set within a property.  Maps are defined on the URI using the @map@ keyword and is followed by a key-value pair.  The key is the name of the property on the map and the value is a @(type,value)@ setting.

```text
http://localhost:8182/graphs/gratefulgraph/vertices/337?keymap=(map,(propertya=(i,123),propertyb=(d,321.5)))
```

h2. Embedded Lists and Maps

Maps and lists can embed other maps and lists within them to virtually any depth required.

```text
http://localhost:818/graphs2/gratefulgraph/vertices/337?keylist=(list,((i,100),(i,200),(i,300),(list,(x,y,z)))
```

```text
http://localhost:8182/graphs/gratefulgraph/vertices/337?keymap=(map,(propertya=(i,123),propertyb=(d,321.5),propertyc=(list,(x,y,z)),propertyd=(map,(x=xyz))))
```