Rexster supports a simple authentication model allowing [[configuration|Rexster Configuration]] through @rexster.xml@.  The model is extensible to allow Rexster users to plug-in their own security implementations with relative ease.  The authentication process extends across all aspects of Rexster to include [[REST|Basic REST API]], [[Dog House|the Dog House]] and [[Rexster Console]] access.

From a REST and Dog House perspective, Rexster supports "Basic Authentication":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication with the @default@ configuration.  To make a REST API call to Rexster with authentication turned on:

```text
curl -H "Authorization:Basic cmV4c3RlcjpyZXhzdGVy" http://localhost:8182/graphs
```

To prepare the request above, the user name is appended with a colon and concatenated with the password. The resulting string is encoded with the Base64 algorithm. For example, given the user name 'rexster' and password 'rexster', the string 'rexster:rexster' is Base64 encoded, resulting in 'cmV4c3RlcjpyZXhzdGVy'.  In the case of Dog House, the browser will produce an authentication dialog box to capture the username and password.

h1. Custom Authentication

The default security model for Rexster that utilizes @rexster.xml@ to house the usernames and passwords may not be the right choice for every environment.  It is possible to develop a plug-in to Rexster to implement your own custom approach to validating a user's credentials.  

Create a class that extends the "AbstractSecurityFilter":https://github.com/tinkerpop/rexster/blob/master/src/main/java/com/tinkerpop/rexster/filter/AbstractSecurityFilter.java.  This class will require the implementation of three methods:

```java
public boolean authenticate(final String username, final String password){
...
}

public void configure(XMLConfiguration configuration) {
...
}

public String getName() {
...
}
```

The @authenticate@ method is the important one.  For each request, a call will be made to this method.  Validate the username and password combination in any way that makes sense for your solution (ie. connect to a database via JDBC) and return @true@ if the the username and password combination are acceptable and false otherwise.

The @configure@ method provides the means by which you can grab configuration information passed in from @rexster.xml@.  This would obviously be useful for a JDBC-based solution where database connectivity information could be set in @rexster.xml@ and passed in to this method at startup of Rexster.  Rexster will pass in the contents of the @<configuration>@ section of @rexster.xml@.

The @getName@ method is fairly simple.  It is just a name used for labeling of the implementation and can be any identifiable arbitrary string that you like.

Make this class available in the Rexster classpath by copying it to Rexster's @REXSTER_HOME/ext@ directory (just like [[Rexster Extensions|Extensions]]).  

The final step is to configure @rexster.xml@ to use your custom security extension.  Set the value of the @<security><authentication><type>@ element to the fully qualified class name for your @AbstractSecurityFilter@ implementation.