This page contains frequently identified problems with Rexster and its components.  

h3. Not using "localhost" to access REST API/Dog House?

If you set up Rexster with the default configuration in a server environment and try to access it by IP or DNS as in:

```text
http://8.8.8.8:8182/graphs/tinkergraph
```

you will quickly find that Rexster will not respond to requests.  In most cases, after checking firewall settings that the appropriate ports are open, the solution is to simply check @rexster.xml@ and ensure that the @<base-uri>@ property is set properly.  Given the above example, that would mean setting the value as follows:

```xml
<rexster>
  ...
  <base-uri>http://8.8.8.8</base-uri>
  ...
</rexster>
```

When setting up a non-local Rexster environment, it is a good idea to read through the [[Rexster Configuration]] section very carefully to ensure that all settings are as needed for your environment.

h3. Dog House not showing configured graphs?

If you access the Dog House and find no graphs visible to select, there is a good chance that either the @<base-uri>@ property of @rexster.xml@ is not set appropriately or firewall ports are preventing access to the port configured in @<rexster-server-port>@.  A simple way to test connectivity is to point your browser at the configured @<base-uri>@ and @<rexster-server-port>@ to see if some valid JSON is returned. 

h3. Want to see more logging from Rexster?

By default, Rexster is configured to hide Jersey-level logging.  Sometimes, this information includes very valuable information when trying to isolate a problem or issue.  To have this log information displayed in the console, simply supply to the @-d@ or @--debug@ option as follows:

```text
rexster.sh -s -d
```